>> Kyle Simpson: Alright,
we're gonna go ahead and
switch now into Exercise 2,
which is really,
just gonna be a continuation of what
we've been doing in Exercise 1.
So there's a couple of
different ways to do that.
I'm just gonna copy
the ex1.js into ex2.js so
that it is a starting point for us.
And the benefit of doing the copy
approach is that it keeps,
if you're on a system like this,
it'll keep the executable bit for you.
So let's open up the ex2.js and
our exercises folder.
And then we'll move on from there.
So we talked about several things
in our Exercise 1 discussion.
For example, we talked about the problem,
if we were to process a really large file,
our current approach is that we're pulling
this whole thing in and dumping it out.
So let's talk about how we
might deal with streams.
And I wanna talk for
a moment about how node streams work.
I also wanna point out to you that there's
a really fantastic resource on this topic.
It is the node stream handbook and
I will show,
you literally just Google node stream
handbook and it's the very first link.
This handbook written by sub stack
is probably the best resource I
have found to talk about node stream.
So I'm gonna briefly
introduce the concept, but
I strongly strongly recommend that
you go read the node stream handbook.
>> Student: Sub stack actually has
a course on streams on Front End Masters.
>> Kyle Simpson: Excellent,
see the node stream handbook and
sub stack has a course here on
Front End Masters about node streams.
Basic idea that you need to grasp
on to is that streams have,
they can be in a mode where you can read
from them, meaning they're producing and
you can consume from them,
you can read from them.
That's called a read stream or
a readable stream.
And then, the other mode would be
that they're a writable stream,
meaning that they can receive inputs and
you can write to them.
So you can read from a readable stream,
write to a writable stream.
Those are both called simplex streams,
meaning they're just unidirectional.
You can either read from it or
write to it.
There is a special kind of
stream called a duplex stream,
which can be both read to and written
from, that's not what we're covering here.
But just so you're aware, you have
readable streams and writable streams.
So let me just actually
open up an empty file and
give you an idea of what
I'm talking about here.
If I have a stream that's
come from somewhere and
I wanna say stream2 and I wanna get
some information out of stream1.
Let's say I have a stream1 and
a stream2, and
these have been created somehow, and
I want to take the output of stream1.
So let's say that stream one is a readable
streams, I wanna be able to read from it.
And let's say stream2 is a writable
stream, so I'll annotate that here.
We'll say this is a readable stream and
this is a writable stream.
If I want to connect those two,
it's kind of like literally if you
connected a garden hose to the outlet.
I want to connect these so that the flow
of data is continuous through them.
Then you literally will take
the readable stream and
pipe it into the writable stream.
So we would say, stream1.pipe stream2.
You call .pipe on a readable stream.
And that hooks up a listener to listen for
chunks of data that are coming through.
These streams under
the covers are in chunks.
I think the default chunk
size is 65,000 bytes.
In chunks, they are reading binary
data from a readable stream and
then pushing it out to
the writable side of a stream.
And so they're just doing that
chunks at a time, chunks at a time.
And they're doing it highly efficiently,
using these binary buffers.
And so what we're saying is,
take my readable stream and
pipe it to my writable stream.
You'll notice if you ever try
to do a writable stream.pipe,
that method isn't there.
So pipe is a part of
the readable interface.
And the mechanisms under the covers
that pipe uses to attach and
start writing into it, those will
only be available if you pass in
a writable stream because it's
got the writable interface.
So if I wanted to find out what
was coming out of that process.
In other words, I wanna be reading from,
if stream2 was a duplex stream then I
could both write to it and read from it.
But in general,
it's gonna be a simplex stream.
It's not gonna have the readable interface
to it, so I can't read from stream2.
But if I wanted to pipe the output
of stream to somewhere else,
then I don't really have a way to do that.
And so that's the third part that you need
to know is that the return value from
a .pipe call stream three that
is another readable stream.
So the pattern here is
readable.pipe writable,
and what you get back is another readable.
And that means that you could then
have kind of a chain of these.
You could have stream1,
.pipe(stream2), .pipe(stream5),
.pipe you know it just takes the readable,
pipes it to a writable and
then exposes a readable that can
read from the other end of that and
then lets you keep you chaining that,
lets you keep piping that to as many
places as you need to go, okay.
So here, we would basically be saying,
stream1 is gonna go into stream2,
stream2 is gonna go into stream5,
stream5 is gonna go into final.
And if final had any outputs, then that
would actually be coming into stream3.
So the pattern again is readable.pipe
passed into writable and
you get back a readable.
And that's literally like 85% of
understanding how to work with streams,
it's just figuring out how to have
a readable stream hooked up to a writable
stream and how to then take some data
from one location and push it to another.
So how are we gonna use that?
Well, let's go back to our exercise and
let's think about what we were doing
with our files and our get standard in.
Remember, I said that gets,
that standard in is a stream.
But we have been pulling in
the files as a string, not a stream.
Well, what if we were to switch
this to a streaming interface?
Meaning, we could get a stream for the
standard in, we could get a stream from
our file, and then we could do
the processing chunk by chunk.
That's gonna be a switch of our strategy.
Same outcome but a switch of our strategy
that's gonna be much more efficient,
much more the way that you ought
to be doing things in node.
So number one, we're gonna change, we're
gonna get rid of our usage of getStdin
now, because we're gonna actually just
use the straight up Stdin stream.
So I'm gonna take this part out and
I'm gonna call processFile and
I'm gonna pass in process.stdin,
because we're now
gonna make processFile actually
able to handle a stream.
It's gonna be a stream of contents, okay?
Now, how would we do it
with the file system?
Well, we have a method on the FS module
that can give us a readable stream
that's connected to a file.
So what we're gonna do is say.
>> Kyle Simpson: fs.createReadStream.
And we're gonna give it that same path.
>> Kyle Simpson: And now rather than
getting the whole contents of the file,
we have a readable stream that's hooked
up to that file, and we can read from it.
Just like we can read from standard in.
So now, we just wanna to
pass that into processFile.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we’ve changed our
processFile to take a readable stream as
its input.
I'm gonna come here and
modify process file.
We're gonna call this in stream.
That's the incoming stream.
And then at the very end of this,
we're gonna have an output
stream that we want to send out.
So we're gonna say
process.stdout is gonna be
our target stream will
call that target for now.
That's gonna be our target stream.
And what we're gonna do is have an output
stream that we pipe to our target.
I'll call it target stream.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
So our input stream is coming in and
we could just literally dump it.
We could literally just say
outStream = inStream or
we could say input stream.pipe
to the output stream.
We could literally do nothing in between,
but that's not particularly interesting we
wanted to be able to do
the upper casing of the values.
So if we're gonna have our input stream,
let me just show you the intermediate,
we'll do that, we'll say,
the input stream.
The out stream, sorry,
outStream = inStream.
And this would allow us to dump
the contents to the standard out from
our file or from our standard in without
any processing happening whatsoever.
So when we pass in this
ReadStream from our file, or
when we process process standard in,
it's this thing and
we're just making a reference
to it called outStream.
And because we know it's a readable,
we can .pipe it to a writable stream
process.stdout as a writable stream.
So our shapes line up.
So let's just go back to our
command line and try it.
Remember, you wanna be using ex2,js, so
don't forget to update
your command line usage.
And we're gonna just say,
file=files/hello.txt,
we still get the same output.
Same thing if I change it to lorem.txt,
it'll now stream the entire
contents of that file.
It's not doing any changes to the file,
but it's streaming in the entire context.
Now, if we were really getting into
the nitty gritty, we could like debug
the memory process and see that this was
different than what we did before when we
have this one big megabyte of content, we
never have the whole megabyte in memory.
Effectively, we only had about 65,000
bytes in memory anytime because it would
read a chunk, and
then write it out to the standard out and
then read another chunk and
read it out to the standard out.
Instead of like we were doing before,
which is we read it into a buffer and then
converted it to a string and changed it to
an uppercase string and then wrote it out.
That would have been a lot of
copies of that megabyte of memory,
being juggled in garbage collector and
so forth.